Add a blog post for Docker agent image renaming (#3167)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/blog/2020/05/2020-05-06-docker-agent-image-renaming.adoc

  starting from link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/releases/tag/4.3-2[4.3-2]
* link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/inbound-agent[jenkins/inbound-agent] is the new name of the  link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/jnlp-slave[jenkins/jnlp-slave] image,
  starting from link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/releases/tag/4.3-2[4.3-2]
* link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/agent[jenkins/agent] is the new name of the old link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/ssh-slave[jenkins/ssh-slave] image,
  starting from link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/releases/tag/2.0.0[2.0.0]

See the upgrade guidelines below.

== Why?

The "slave" term is widely considered inappropriate in open source communities.
It has been officially deprecated in Jenkins 2.0 in 2016, but there are remaining usages in some Jenkins components.
The jira:JENKINS-42816[Slave to Agent renaming leftovers] EPIC tracks cleanup of such usages.
Official Docker agent images were a glaring case, it was not easy to fix that with the previous versions of the image release Pipelines on DockerHub.

> It is great to have the image naming issue finally fixed by this update.

Author: ```suggestion
It is great to have the image naming issue finally fixed by this update.
Thanks a lot to link:https://github.com/slide[Alex Earl] and link:https://github.com/krufab[krufab] for the repository restructuring groundwork which made it possible!
```

---
layout: post
title: "Renaming of official Docker agent images"
tags:
- announcement
- docker
- platform-sig
author: oleg_nenashev
opengraph:
  image: /images/docker/dockerJenkins_social.png
---

> We would like to announce renaming of the official Docker images for Jenkins agents.

Reviewer: I would change `We would like to announce renaming` to `We would like to announce the renaming`

Author: ```suggestion
We would like to announce the renaming of the official Docker images for Jenkins agents.
```

This article provides information about the new official names, upgrade procedure, and the support policy for the old images.
This renaming does not have any immediate impact on Jenkins users.

image:/images/docker/dockerJenkins.png[Jenkins and Docker, role=center, float=right, height=224]

== New image names

> * link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/agent[jenkins/agent] is a new name of the old link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/slave[jenkins/slave] image,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/agent[jenkins/agent] is the new name of the old link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/slave[jenkins/slave] image,
```

  starting from link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-agent/releases/tag/4.3-2[4.3-2]

> * link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/inbound-agent[jenkins/inbound-agent] is a new name of the  link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/jnlp-slave[jenkins/jnlp-slave] image,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/inbound-agent[jenkins/inbound-agent] is the new name of the  link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/jnlp-slave[jenkins/jnlp-slave] image,
```

  starting from link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-inbound-agent/releases/tag/4.3-2[4.3-2]

> * link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/agent[jenkins/agent] is a new name of the old link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/ssh-slave[jenkins/ssh-slave] image,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/agent[jenkins/agent] is the new name of the old link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/ssh-slave[jenkins/ssh-slave] image,
```

  starting from link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/docker-ssh-agent/releases/tag/2.0.0[2.0.0]

See the upgrade guidelines below.

== Why?

The "slave" term is widely considered inappropriate in open source communities.
It has been officially deprecated in Jenkins 2.0 in 2016, but there are remaining usages in some Jenkins components.
The jira:JENKINS-42816[Slave to Agent renaming leftovers] EPIC tracks cleanup of such usages.
Official Docker agent images were a glaring case, it was not easy to fix that with the previous versions of the image release Pipelines on DockerHub.

> It great to have the image naming issue finally fixed by this update.

Author: ```suggestion
It great to have the image naming issue finally fixed by this update,
Thanks a lot to link:https://github.com/slide[Alex Earl] and link:https://github.com/krufab[krufab] for the repository restructuring groundwork which made it possible!
```

@slide @krufab would such reference be fine with you?

Reviewer 3: Fine for me. Thanks :D

Author: @krufab what name should I put in the attribution? Can keep as is.

> It great to have the image naming issue finally fixed by this update.

Reviewer 4: There is a slight grammatical error in line 36. It should be : 
It is great to have the image naming issue finally fixed by this update

Author: ```suggestion
It is great to have the image naming issue finally fixed by this update.
```

> Another notable change is replacing the _JNLP agent_ term by _inbound agent_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Another notable change is replacing the _JNLP agent_ term with _inbound agent_.
```

Historically "JNLP" has been used as a name of link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/remoting/blob/master/docs/protocols.md[Remoting protocols].
JNLP stands for link:https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Java_Web_Start#Java_Network_Launching_Protocol_(JNLP)[Java Network Launch Protocol] which is a part of the Java Web Start.
Jenkins supports Java Web Start mode for agents when running agents on Java 1.8,
but our networking protocols are based on TCP and have nothing to do with Java Network Launch Protocol.

> So this name has been very confusing since the very beginning,
> and it became worse with the introduction of WebSocket support in Jenkins 2.217 (jep:222[]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This name has been very confusing since the beginning 
and became worse with the introduction of WebSocket support in Jenkins 2.217 (jep:222[]).
```

Docker agent images support WebSockets, so we decided to change the image name to link:https://hub.docker.com/repository/docker/jenkins/inbound-agent[jenkins/inbound-agent] so that it prevents further confusion.

> 

Reviewer 2: Might be good to mention the reason that "inbound" is used? Something like: 

`Inbound agent refers to agent protocols in which the agent initiates the connection to the Jenkins master through various different protocols`

Author: ```suggestion
_Inbound agent_ term refers to agent protocols in which the agent initiates the connection to the Jenkins master through various different protocols.
```

== Upgrading and Compatibility Notes

Good news, there are no breaking changes caused by this renaming.
All images have been already modified to use the new terminology internally.
If you use the recent versions of the previous images,

> you can just replace the old names by the new ones.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
you can just replace the old names with the new ones.
```

> These names may be referenced in your Dockerfiles, scripts and Jenkins configurations.

Reviewer: a comma after `scripts`

Author: ```suggestion
These names may be referenced in your Dockerfiles, scripts, and Jenkins configurations.
```

> We will keep updating the old images on DockerHub for at least 3 months.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We will keep updating the old images on DockerHub for at least 3 months (until August 05, 2020).
```

There will be no new configurations and platforms added to the old images,
but all existing ones will remain available (Debian for Java 1.8 and 11, Alpine for Java 1.8, etc.).

> We may stop delivering updates to old images after 3 months (Aug 05, 2020),
> but previous versions will remain available to users.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After August 05, 2020, the old images will no longer receive updates, but previous versions will remain available to users on Dockerhub.
```

Author: I am fine with stronger phrasing

== What's next?

We will continue renaming of the Docker images in Jenkins components which reference old image names.
There is also a set of link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jnlp-agents[convenience Docker images] which include build tools like Maven or Gradle which will be renamed later.

> The `jenkins/ssh-agent` image might be renamed again in the future due,

Reviewer: Capitalize `jenkins`

Reviewer 5: Since that is the name of an image, I don't think we should capitalize it.  I'd rather not rely on Docker to be case insensitive for organization names,

Reviewer: aha! Good call and thank you

> The `jenkins/ssh-agent` image might be renamed again in the future due,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `jenkins/ssh-agent` image might be renamed again in the future as well;
```

> see the ongoing discussion in this developer link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/jenkinsci-dev/oxD-Hd_7l9k/WAbvqD-wEQAJ[mailing list thread].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
see the ongoing discussion in this developer list thread link:https://groups.google.com/forum/#!msg/jenkinsci-dev/oxD-Hd_7l9k/WAbvqD-wEQAJ[mailing list thread].
```

Author: The text is in URL

> If you rather wonder about new features in Jenkins Docker packaging,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you are interested in new features in Jenkins Docker packaging,
```

stay tuned for future announcements!
There are multiple ongoing initiatives:

>   general availability of Windows images,
>   adding support for more platforms (AArch64, IBM s390x, PowerPC),
>   switching to AdoptOpenJDK,
>   and other stories.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

- general availability of Windows images,
- adding support for more platforms (AArch64, IBM s390x, PowerPC),
- switching to AdoptOpenJDK,
- and other stories

```

Author: I will review the resulting formatting

You can find some of these stories on the link:/project/roadmap/[public Jenkins roadmap] which is currently in the draft stage (see jep:14[]).
If you are interested in any of these projects and would like to contribute,

> please reach out to the link:/sigs/platform[Platform special interest group] which coordinates initiatives related to Jenkins in Docker.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
please reach out to the link:/sigs/platform[Platform Special Interest Group] which coordinates initiatives related to Jenkins in Docker.
```
